docs/Advanced-Usage/Manager/Manager-Tasks.rst, before:

Manager Tasks
========================

This page outlines all of the tasks that the FireSim manager supports.

.. _firesim-managerinit:

``firesim managerinit``
----------------------------

This is a setup command that does the following:

* Run ``aws configure``, prompt for credentials
* Replace the default config files (``config_runtime.ini``, ``config_build.ini``, ``config_build_recipes.ini``, and ``config_hwdb.ini``) with clean example versions.
* Prompt the user for email address and subscribe them to notifications for their own builds.

You can re-run this whenever you want to get clean configuration files -- you
can just hit enter when prompted for aws configure credentials and your email
address, and both will keep your previously specified values.

If you run this command by accident and didn't mean to overwrite your
configuration files, you'll find backed-up versions in
``firesim/deploy/sample-backup-configs/backup*``.


.. _firesim-buildafi:

``firesim buildafi``
----------------------

This command builds a FireSim AGFI (FPGA Image) from the Chisel RTL for the
configurations that you specify. The process of defining configurations to
build is explained in the documentation for :ref:`config-build` and
:ref:`config-build-recipes`.

For each config, the build process entails:

1. [Locally] Run the elaboration process for your hardware configuration

2. [Locally] FAME-1 transform the design with MIDAS

3. [Locally] Attach simulation models (I/O widgets, memory model, etc.)

4. [Locally] Emit Verilog to run through the AWS FPGA Flow

5. Launch an FPGA Dev AMI build instance for each configuration you want built.

6. [Local/Remote] Prep build instances, copy generated verilog for hardware configuration to build instance.

7. [Remote] Run Vivado Synthesis and P&R for the configuration

8. [Local/Remote] Copy back all output generated by Vivado, including the final tar file

9. [Local/AWS Infra] Submit the tar file to the AWS backend for conversion to an AFI

10. [Local] Wait for the AFI to become available, then notify the user of completion by email.

This process happens in parallel for all of the builds you specify. The command
will exit when all builds are completed (but you will get notified as
INDIVIDUAL builds complete).

**It is highly recommended that you either run this command in a ``screen`` or use
``mosh`` to access the build instance. Builds will not finish if the manager is
killed due to disconnection to the instance.**

When you run a build for a particular configuration, a directory named
``LAUNCHTIME-CONFIG_TRIPLET-BUILD_NAME`` is created in ``firesim/deploy/results-build/``.
This directory will contain:

- ``AGFI_INFO``: Describes the state of the AFI being built, while the manager is running. Upon build completion, this contains the AGFI/AFI that was produced, along with its metadata.

- ``cl_firesim:``: This directory is essentially the Vivado project that built the FPGA image, in the state it was in when the Vivado build process completed. This contains reports, stdout from the build, and the final tar file produced by Vivado.

- ``FireSim-generated.sv``: This is a copy of the generated verilog used to produce this build. You can also find a copy inside ``cl_firesim``.


.. _firesim-tar2afi:

``firesim tar2afi``
----------------------

This command can be used to run only steps 9 & 10 from an aborted ``firesim buildafi`` that has been
manually corrected. ``firesim tar2afi`` assumes that you have a
``firesim/deploy/results-build/LAUNCHTIME-CONFIG_TRIPLET-BUILD_NAME/cl_firesim``
directory tree that can be submitted to the AWS backend for conversion to an AFI.

When using this command, you need to also provide the ``--launchtime LAUNCHTIME`` cmdline argument,
specifying an already existing LAUNCHTIME.

This command will run for the configurations specified in :ref:`config-build` and
:ref:`config-build-recipes` as with :ref:`firesim-buildafi`.  It is likely that you may want
to comment out ``BUILD_NAME`` that successfully completed :ref:`firesim-buildafi` before
running this command.


.. _firesim-shareagfi:

``firesim shareagfi``
----------------------

This command allows you to share AGFIs that you have already built (that are
listed in :ref:`config-hwdb`) with other users. It will take the
named hardware configurations that you list in the ``[agfistoshare]`` section of
``config_build.ini``, grab the respective AGFIs for each from
``config_hwdb.ini``, and share them across all F1 regions with the users listed
in the ``[sharewithaccounts]`` section of ``config_build.ini``. You can also specify ``public=public`` in ``[sharewithaccounts]`` to make the AGFIs public.

You must own the AGFIs in order to do this -- this will NOT let you share AGFIs
that someone else owns and gave you access to.


.. _firesim-launchrunfarm:

``firesim launchrunfarm``
---------------------------

This command launches a Run Farm on which you run simulations. Run Farms
consist of ``f1.16xlarge``, ``f1.4xlarge``, ``f1.2xlarge``, and ``m4.16xlarge`` instances.
Before you run the command, you define the number of each that you want in
``config_runtime.ini``.

A launched Run Farm is tagged with a ``runfarmtag`` from
``config_runtime.ini``, which is used to disambiguate multiple parallel Run
Farms; that is, you can have many Run Farms running, each running a different
experiment at the same time, each with its own unique ``runfarmtag``. One
convenient feature to add to your AWS management panel is the column for
``fsimcluster``, which contains the ``runfarmtag`` value. You can see how to do
that in the :ref:`fsimcluster-aws-panel` section.

The other options in the ``[runfarm]`` section, ``runinstancemarket``,
``spotinterruptionbehavior``, and ``spotmaxprice`` define *how* instances in
the Run Farm are launched. See the documentation for ``config_runtime.ini`` for
more details.

**ERRATA**: One current requirement is that you must define a target config in
the ``[targetconfig]`` section of ``config_runtime.ini`` that does not require
more resources than the Run Farm you are trying to launch. Thus, you should
also setup your ``[targetconfig]`` parameters before trying to launch the
corresponding Run Farm. This requirement will be removed in the future.

Once you setup your configuration and call ``firesim launchrunfarm``, the command
will launch the requested numbers and types of instances. If all succeeds, you
will see the command print out instance IDs for the correct number/types of
launched instances (you do not need to pay attention to these or record them).
If an error occurs, it will be printed to console.

**Once you run this command, your Run Farm will continue to run until you call
``firesim terminaterunfarm``. This means you will be charged for the running
instances in your Run Farm until you call ``terminaterunfarm``. You are
responsible for ensuring that instances are only running when you want them to
be by checking the AWS EC2 Management Panel.**

.. _firesim-terminaterunfarm:

``firesim terminaterunfarm``
-----------------------------

This command terminates some or all of the instances in the Run Farm defined
in your ``config_runtime.ini`` file, depending on the command line arguments
you supply. By default, running ``firesim terminaterunfarm`` will terminate
ALL instances with the specified ``runfarmtag``. When you run this command,
it will prompt for confirmation that you want to terminate the listed instances.
If you respond in the affirmative, it will move forward with the termination.

If you do not want to have to confirm the termination (e.g. you are using this
command in a script), you can give the command the ``--forceterminate`` command
line argument. For example, the following will TERMINATE ALL INSTANCES IN THE
RUN FARM WITHOUT PROMPTING FOR CONFIRMATION:

::

    firesim terminaterunfarm --forceterminate


There a few additional commandline arguments that let you terminate only
some of the instances in a particular Run Farm: ``--terminatesomef116 INT``,
``--terminatesomef14 INT``, ``--terminatesomef12 INT``, and
``--terminatesomem416 INT``, which will terminate ONLY as many of each type of
instance as you specify.

Here are some examples:

::

    [ start with 2 f1.16xlarges, 2 f1.2xlarges, 2 m4.16xlarges ]

    firesim terminaterunfarm --terminatesomef116 1 --forceterminate

    [ now, we have: 1 f1.16xlarges, 2 f1.2xlarges, 2 m4.16xlarges ]


::

    [ start with 2 f1.16xlarges, 2 f1.2xlarges, 2 m4.16xlarges ]

    firesim terminaterunfarm --terminatesomef116 1 --terminatesomef12 2 --forceterminate

    [ now, we have: 1 f1.16xlarges, 0 f1.2xlarges, 2 m4.16xlarges ]


**Once you call ``launchrunfarm``, you will be charged for running instances in
your Run Farm until you call ``terminaterunfarm``. You are responsible for
ensuring that instances are only running when you want them to be by checking
the AWS EC2 Management Panel.**


.. _firesim-infrasetup:

``firesim infrasetup``
-------------------------

Once you have launched a Run Farm and setup all of your configuration options,
the ``infrasetup`` command will build all components necessary to run the
simulation and deploy those components to the machines in the Run Farm. Here
is a rough outline of what the command does:

- Constructs the internal representation of your simulation. This is a tree of
  components in the simulation (simulated server blades, switches)
- For each type of server blade, query the AWS AFI API to get the build-triplet
  needed to construct the software simulation driver, then build each driver
- For each type of switch in the simulation, generate the switch model binary
- For each host instance in the Run Farm, collect information about all the
  resources necessary to run a simulation on that host instance, then copy
  files and flash FPGAs with the required AGFIs.

Details about setting up your simulation configuration can be found in
:ref:`config-runtime`.

**Once you run a simulation, you should re-run ``firesim infrasetup`` before
starting another one, even if it is the same exact simulation on the same Run
Farm.**

You can see detailed output from an example run of ``infrasetup`` in the
:ref:`single-node-sim` and :ref:`cluster-sim` Tutorials.

.. _firesim-boot:

``firesim boot``
-------------------

Once you have run ``firesim infrasetup``, this command will actually start
simulations. It begins by launching all switches (if they exist in your
simulation config), then launches all server blade simulations. This simply
launches simulations and then exits -- it does not perform any monitoring.

This command is useful if you want to launch a simulation, then plan to
interact with the simulation by-hand (i.e. by directly interacting with the
console).


.. _firesim-kill:

``firesim kill``
-------------------

Given a simulation configuration and simulations running on a Run Farm, this
command force-terminates all components of the simulation. Importantly, this
does not allow any outstanding changes to the filesystem in the simulated
systems to be committed to the disk image.


.. _firesim-runworkload:

``firesim runworkload``
--------------------------

This command is the standard tool that lets you launch simulations, monitor the
progress of workloads running on them, and collect results automatically when
the workloads complete. To call this command, you must have first called
``firesim infrasetup`` to setup all required simulation infrastructure on the
remote nodes.

This command will first create a directory in ``firesim/deploy/results-workload/``
named as ``LAUNCH_TIME-WORKLOADNAME``, where results will be completed as simulations
complete.
This command will then automatically call ``firesim boot`` to start simulations.
Then, it polls all the instances in the Run Farm every 10 seconds to determine
the state of the simulated system. If it notices that a simulation has shutdown
(i.e. the simulation disappears from the output of ``screen -ls``), it will
automatically copy back all results from the simulation, as defined in the
workload configuration (see the :ref:`defining-custom-workloads` section).

For
non-networked simulations, it will wait for ALL simulations to complete (copying
back results as each workload completes), then exit.

For
globally-cycle-accurate networked simulations, the global simulation will stop
when any single node powers off. Thus, for these simulations, ``runworkload``
will copy back results from all nodes and force them to terminate by calling
``kill`` when ANY SINGLE ONE of them shuts down cleanly.

A simulation shuts down cleanly when the workload running on the simulator calls ``poweroff``.

.. _firesim-runcheck:

``firesim runcheck``
----------------------

This command is provided to let you debug configuration options without launching
instances. In addition to the output produced at command line/in the log, you will
find a pdf diagram of the topology you specify, annotated with information about
the workloads, hardware configurations, and abstract host mappings for each
simulation (and optionally, switch) in your design. These diagrams are located
in ``firesim/deploy/generated-topology-diagrams/``, named after your topology.

Here is an example of such a diagram (click to expand/zoom):

.. figure:: runcheck_example.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: Example diagram from running ``firesim runcheck``

   Example diagram for an 8-node cluster with one ToR switch

Commit message:

Add manual input bypass for buildafi

docs/Advanced-Usage/Manager/Manager-Tasks.rst, after:

Manager Tasks
========================

This page outlines all of the tasks that the FireSim manager supports.

.. _firesim-managerinit:

``firesim managerinit``
----------------------------

This is a setup command that does the following:

* Run ``aws configure``, prompt for credentials
* Replace the default config files (``config_runtime.ini``, ``config_build.ini``, ``config_build_recipes.ini``, and ``config_hwdb.ini``) with clean example versions.
* Prompt the user for email address and subscribe them to notifications for their own builds.

You can re-run this whenever you want to get clean configuration files -- you
can just hit enter when prompted for aws configure credentials and your email
address, and both will keep your previously specified values.

If you run this command by accident and didn't mean to overwrite your
configuration files, you'll find backed-up versions in
``firesim/deploy/sample-backup-configs/backup*``.


.. _firesim-buildafi:

``firesim buildafi``
----------------------

This command builds a FireSim AGFI (FPGA Image) from the Chisel RTL for the
configurations that you specify. The process of defining configurations to
build is explained in the documentation for :ref:`config-build` and
:ref:`config-build-recipes`.

For each config, the build process entails:

1. [Locally] Run the elaboration process for your hardware configuration

2. [Locally] FAME-1 transform the design with MIDAS

3. [Locally] Attach simulation models (I/O widgets, memory model, etc.)

4. [Locally] Emit Verilog to run through the AWS FPGA Flow

5. Launch an FPGA Dev AMI build instance for each configuration you want built.

6. [Local/Remote] Prep build instances, copy generated verilog for hardware configuration to build instance.

7. [Remote] Run Vivado Synthesis and P&R for the configuration

8. [Local/Remote] Copy back all output generated by Vivado, including the final tar file

9. [Local/AWS Infra] Submit the tar file to the AWS backend for conversion to an AFI

10. [Local] Wait for the AFI to become available, then notify the user of completion by email.

This process happens in parallel for all of the builds you specify. The command
will exit when all builds are completed (but you will get notified as
INDIVIDUAL builds complete).

**It is highly recommended that you either run this command in a ``screen`` or use
``mosh`` to access the build instance. Builds will not finish if the manager is
killed due to disconnection to the instance.**

When you run a build for a particular configuration, a directory named
``LAUNCHTIME-CONFIG_TRIPLET-BUILD_NAME`` is created in ``firesim/deploy/results-build/``.
This directory will contain:

- ``AGFI_INFO``: Describes the state of the AFI being built, while the manager is running. Upon build completion, this contains the AGFI/AFI that was produced, along with its metadata.

- ``cl_firesim:``: This directory is essentially the Vivado project that built the FPGA image, in the state it was in when the Vivado build process completed. This contains reports, stdout from the build, and the final tar file produced by Vivado.

- ``FireSim-generated.sv``: This is a copy of the generated verilog used to produce this build. You can also find a copy inside ``cl_firesim``.

If this command is cancelled by a SIGINT, it will prompt for confirmation
that you want to terminate the build instances.
If you respond in the affirmative, it will move forward with the termination.
If you do not want to have to confirm the termination (e.g. you are using this
command in a script), you can give the command the ``--forceterminate`` command
line argument. For example, the following will TERMINATE ALL BUILD INSTANCES IN THE
BUILD FARM WITHOUT PROMPTING FOR CONFIRMATION IF A SIGINT IS RECEIVED:

::

    firesim buildafi --forceterminate

.. _firesim-tar2afi:

``firesim tar2afi``
----------------------

This command can be used to run only steps 9 & 10 from an aborted ``firesim buildafi`` that has been
manually corrected. ``firesim tar2afi`` assumes that you have a
``firesim/deploy/results-build/LAUNCHTIME-CONFIG_TRIPLET-BUILD_NAME/cl_firesim``
directory tree that can be submitted to the AWS backend for conversion to an AFI.

When using this command, you need to also provide the ``--launchtime LAUNCHTIME`` cmdline argument,
specifying an already existing LAUNCHTIME.

This command will run for the configurations specified in :ref:`config-build` and
:ref:`config-build-recipes` as with :ref:`firesim-buildafi`.  It is likely that you may want
to comment out ``BUILD_NAME`` that successfully completed :ref:`firesim-buildafi` before
running this command.


.. _firesim-shareagfi:

``firesim shareagfi``
----------------------

This command allows you to share AGFIs that you have already built (that are
listed in :ref:`config-hwdb`) with other users. It will take the
named hardware configurations that you list in the ``[agfistoshare]`` section of
``config_build.ini``, grab the respective AGFIs for each from
``config_hwdb.ini``, and share them across all F1 regions with the users listed
in the ``[sharewithaccounts]`` section of ``config_build.ini``. You can also specify ``public=public`` in ``[sharewithaccounts]`` to make the AGFIs public.

You must own the AGFIs in order to do this -- this will NOT let you share AGFIs
that someone else owns and gave you access to.


.. _firesim-launchrunfarm:

``firesim launchrunfarm``
---------------------------

This command launches a Run Farm on which you run simulations. Run Farms
consist of ``f1.16xlarge``, ``f1.4xlarge``, ``f1.2xlarge``, and ``m4.16xlarge`` instances.
Before you run the command, you define the number of each that you want in
``config_runtime.ini``.

A launched Run Farm is tagged with a ``runfarmtag`` from
``config_runtime.ini``, which is used to disambiguate multiple parallel Run
Farms; that is, you can have many Run Farms running, each running a different
experiment at the same time, each with its own unique ``runfarmtag``. One
convenient feature to add to your AWS management panel is the column for
``fsimcluster``, which contains the ``runfarmtag`` value. You can see how to do
that in the :ref:`fsimcluster-aws-panel` section.

The other options in the ``[runfarm]`` section, ``runinstancemarket``,
``spotinterruptionbehavior``, and ``spotmaxprice`` define *how* instances in
the Run Farm are launched. See the documentation for ``config_runtime.ini`` for
more details.

**ERRATA**: One current requirement is that you must define a target config in
the ``[targetconfig]`` section of ``config_runtime.ini`` that does not require
more resources than the Run Farm you are trying to launch. Thus, you should
also setup your ``[targetconfig]`` parameters before trying to launch the
corresponding Run Farm. This requirement will be removed in the future.

Once you setup your configuration and call ``firesim launchrunfarm``, the command
will launch the requested numbers and types of instances. If all succeeds, you
will see the command print out instance IDs for the correct number/types of
launched instances (you do not need to pay attention to these or record them).
If an error occurs, it will be printed to console.

**Once you run this command, your Run Farm will continue to run until you call
``firesim terminaterunfarm``. This means you will be charged for the running
instances in your Run Farm until you call ``terminaterunfarm``. You are
responsible for ensuring that instances are only running when you want them to
be by checking the AWS EC2 Management Panel.**

.. _firesim-terminaterunfarm:

``firesim terminaterunfarm``
-----------------------------

This command terminates some or all of the instances in the Run Farm defined
in your ``config_runtime.ini`` file, depending on the command line arguments
you supply. By default, running ``firesim terminaterunfarm`` will terminate
ALL instances with the specified ``runfarmtag``. When you run this command,
it will prompt for confirmation that you want to terminate the listed instances.
If you respond in the affirmative, it will move forward with the termination.

If you do not want to have to confirm the termination (e.g. you are using this
command in a script), you can give the command the ``--forceterminate`` command
line argument. For example, the following will TERMINATE ALL INSTANCES IN THE
RUN FARM WITHOUT PROMPTING FOR CONFIRMATION:

::

    firesim terminaterunfarm --forceterminate


There a few additional commandline arguments that let you terminate only
some of the instances in a particular Run Farm: ``--terminatesomef116 INT``,
``--terminatesomef14 INT``, ``--terminatesomef12 INT``, and
``--terminatesomem416 INT``, which will terminate ONLY as many of each type of
instance as you specify.

Here are some examples:

::

    [ start with 2 f1.16xlarges, 2 f1.2xlarges, 2 m4.16xlarges ]

    firesim terminaterunfarm --terminatesomef116 1 --forceterminate

    [ now, we have: 1 f1.16xlarges, 2 f1.2xlarges, 2 m4.16xlarges ]


::

    [ start with 2 f1.16xlarges, 2 f1.2xlarges, 2 m4.16xlarges ]

    firesim terminaterunfarm --terminatesomef116 1 --terminatesomef12 2 --forceterminate

    [ now, we have: 1 f1.16xlarges, 0 f1.2xlarges, 2 m4.16xlarges ]


**Once you call ``launchrunfarm``, you will be charged for running instances in
your Run Farm until you call ``terminaterunfarm``. You are responsible for
ensuring that instances are only running when you want them to be by checking
the AWS EC2 Management Panel.**


.. _firesim-infrasetup:

``firesim infrasetup``
-------------------------

Once you have launched a Run Farm and setup all of your configuration options,
the ``infrasetup`` command will build all components necessary to run the
simulation and deploy those components to the machines in the Run Farm. Here
is a rough outline of what the command does:

- Constructs the internal representation of your simulation. This is a tree of
  components in the simulation (simulated server blades, switches)
- For each type of server blade, query the AWS AFI API to get the build-triplet
  needed to construct the software simulation driver, then build each driver
- For each type of switch in the simulation, generate the switch model binary
- For each host instance in the Run Farm, collect information about all the
  resources necessary to run a simulation on that host instance, then copy
  files and flash FPGAs with the required AGFIs.

Details about setting up your simulation configuration can be found in
:ref:`config-runtime`.

**Once you run a simulation, you should re-run ``firesim infrasetup`` before
starting another one, even if it is the same exact simulation on the same Run
Farm.**

You can see detailed output from an example run of ``infrasetup`` in the
:ref:`single-node-sim` and :ref:`cluster-sim` Tutorials.

.. _firesim-boot:

``firesim boot``
-------------------

Once you have run ``firesim infrasetup``, this command will actually start
simulations. It begins by launching all switches (if they exist in your
simulation config), then launches all server blade simulations. This simply
launches simulations and then exits -- it does not perform any monitoring.

This command is useful if you want to launch a simulation, then plan to
interact with the simulation by-hand (i.e. by directly interacting with the
console).


.. _firesim-kill:

``firesim kill``
-------------------

Given a simulation configuration and simulations running on a Run Farm, this
command force-terminates all components of the simulation. Importantly, this
does not allow any outstanding changes to the filesystem in the simulated
systems to be committed to the disk image.


.. _firesim-runworkload:

``firesim runworkload``
--------------------------

This command is the standard tool that lets you launch simulations, monitor the
progress of workloads running on them, and collect results automatically when
the workloads complete. To call this command, you must have first called
``firesim infrasetup`` to setup all required simulation infrastructure on the
remote nodes.

This command will first create a directory in ``firesim/deploy/results-workload/``
named as ``LAUNCH_TIME-WORKLOADNAME``, where results will be completed as simulations
complete.
This command will then automatically call ``firesim boot`` to start simulations.
Then, it polls all the instances in the Run Farm every 10 seconds to determine
the state of the simulated system. If it notices that a simulation has shutdown
(i.e. the simulation disappears from the output of ``screen -ls``), it will
automatically copy back all results from the simulation, as defined in the
workload configuration (see the :ref:`defining-custom-workloads` section).

For
non-networked simulations, it will wait for ALL simulations to complete (copying
back results as each workload completes), then exit.

For
globally-cycle-accurate networked simulations, the global simulation will stop
when any single node powers off. Thus, for these simulations, ``runworkload``
will copy back results from all nodes and force them to terminate by calling
``kill`` when ANY SINGLE ONE of them shuts down cleanly.

A simulation shuts down cleanly when the workload running on the simulator calls ``poweroff``.

.. _firesim-runcheck:

``firesim runcheck``
----------------------

This command is provided to let you debug configuration options without launching
instances. In addition to the output produced at command line/in the log, you will
find a pdf diagram of the topology you specify, annotated with information about
the workloads, hardware configurations, and abstract host mappings for each
simulation (and optionally, switch) in your design. These diagrams are located
in ``firesim/deploy/generated-topology-diagrams/``, named after your topology.

Here is an example of such a diagram (click to expand/zoom):

.. figure:: runcheck_example.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: Example diagram from running ``firesim runcheck``

   Example diagram for an 8-node cluster with one ToR switch
